The homework can be done in a group of 2 students.
Introduction
The problem of discovering association rules between itemsets in a sales transaction database (a set of baskets) includes the following two sub-problems [R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, VLDB '94Links to an external site.]:

Finding frequent itemsets with support at least s;
Generating association rules with confidence at least c from the itemsets found in the first step.
Remind that an association rule is an implication X → Y, where X and Y are itemsets such that X∩Y=∅. Support of rule X → Y is the number of transactions that contain X⋃Y. Confidence of rule X → Y is the fraction of transactions containing X⋃Y in all transactions that contain X.

Task
You are to solve the first sub-problem: to implement the A-Priori algorithm for finding frequent itemsets with support at least s in a dataset of sales transactions. Remind that support of an itemset is the number of transactions containing the itemset. To test and evaluate your implementation, write a program that uses your A-Priori algorithm implementation to discover frequent itemsets with support at least s in a given dataset of sales transactions.

The implementation can be done using any big data processing framework, such as Apache Spark, Apache Flink, or no framework, e.g., in Java, Python, etc.  

The optional task for an extra bonus
Solve the second sub-problem, i.e., develop and implement an algorithm for generating association rules between frequent itemsets discovered using the A-Priori algorithm in a dataset of sales transactions. The rules must have the support of at least s and confidence of at least c, where s and c are given as input parameters.

Datasets
As a sale transaction dataset, you can use this dataset Download dataset, which includes generated transactions (baskets) of hashed items – you use any browser, e.g., Google Chrome, or a text editor, e.g., WordPad, to view the file under Windows.
You can also use any other transaction datasets as an input dataset found on the Web.
Readings
Lecture 3: Frequent Itemsets
Chapter 6Links to an external site. of Mining of Massive Datasets, by Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, and Jeffrey D. Ullman, 3rd edition, Cambridge University Press, 2020 (http://www.mmds.org/Links to an external site.)
R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association RulesLinks to an external site., VLDB '94
Submission, Presentation, and Demonstration
To submit your homework, you upload your solution in a zip file to Canvas. Canvas records the submission time.  Submission on time, i.e., before the deadline,  is awarded 3 exam bonus points if your homework is accepted. A bonus will not be given if you miss the deadline.  Your homework solution must include 

Source code if required (with comments); 
Makefile or scripts to build and run; 
Report (in PDF) with a short description of your solution, instructions on how to build and run, command-line parameters, if any (including default values), and results, e.g., plots or screenshots. For results, your report should include results from running with the specific inputs of the assignment (if specified in the instructions; otherwise, results from running sample inputs should be included). The report should also include info on how long it took your implementation to compute each set of the results.
In case you work in Jupyter notebook, you can include the report contents there as well, in which case submission of a separate PDF would not be required.
Please do not include the dataset files as part of your submission; instead, make sure there are clear instructions and reachable links for obtaining the dataset are included in your report.
Within a week after the homework deadline, you present and demonstrate your homework on your laptop to a course instructor. A link to the time-slot pool will be provided under Syllabus to book a time slot for the presentation.

Grading and Bonus Policy
The grade for homework is pass/fail. If you submit your solution on time and it is accepted, you will get up to 3 bonus points on the ID2222 exam. Some homework assignments include an optional task for an extra bonus. The total bonus can be reduced for minor errors and inefficiency of your solution.  A bonus will not be given if you miss the deadline.