The homework can be done in a group of 2 students.
Introduction
The following three papers present streaming graph processing methods and corresponding algorithms that make use of the stream mining algorithms presented in the course (Lecture 5, Lecture 6 and Chapter 4Links to an external site. of the textbook Mining of Massive Datasets), namely, the reservoir sampling (Lecture 5) and the Flajolet-Martin algorithm to estimate the number of distinct elements in a stream (Lecture 6). The graph algorithms presented in the first two papers use the reservoir sampling technique; the graph algorithm in the third paper uses the Flajolet-Martin algorithm (HyperLogLog counters).

M. Jha, C. Seshadhri, and A. Pinar, A Space-Efficient Streaming Algorithm for Estimating Transitivity and Triangle Counts Using the Birthday Paradox, ACM TKDD, 9-3, 2015.
L. De Stefani, A. Epasto, M. Riondato, and E. Upfal, TRIÈST: Counting Local and Global Triangles in Fully-Dynamic Streams with Fixed Memory Size, KDD'16.
P.  Boldi and S. Vigna, In-Core Computation of Geometric Centralities with HyperBall: A Hundred Billion Nodes and Beyond, ICDMW'13.
Task
You are to study and implement a streaming graph processing algorithm described in one of the above papers of your choice. To accomplish your task, you are to perform the following two steps.

First, implement the reservoir sampling or the Flajolet-Martin algorithm used in the graph algorithm presented in the paper you have selected;
Second, implement the streaming graph algorithm presented in the paper that uses the algorithm implemented in the first step. 
To ensure that your implementation is correct, you are to test your implementation with some of the publicly available graph datasets (find a link below) and present your test results in a report.

Implementation can be done using any data processing framework that includes support for stream (streaming graph) processing, such as Apache Spark, Apache Flink, or no framework, e.g., in Java, Python, or another language of your choice. 

The optional task for an extra bonus
In your report, answer the following questions:

What were the challenges you faced when implementing the algorithm?
Can the algorithm be easily parallelized? If yes, how? If not, why? Explain.
Does the algorithm work for unbounded graph streams? Explain.
Does the algorithm support edge deletions? If not, what modification would it need? Explain.
Datasets
Graph datasets can be found by following this linkLinks to an external site.. (see, in particular, datasets under "Web graphsLinks to an external site."). Note that information about each dataset (you can see it when you click on a dataset name) includes several metrics, e.g., Triangle Count, that you can use to verify your results.

Readings 
Lecture 5: Mining Data Streams I
Lecture 6: Mining Data Streams II
Chapter 4 Links to an external site.in Mining of Massive Datasets, by Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, and Jeffrey D. Ullman, 3rd edition, Cambridge University Press, 2020 (http://www.mmds.org/Links to an external site.)
Submission, Presentation, and Demonstration
To submit your homework, you upload your solution in a zip file to Canvas. Canvas records the submission time.  Submission on time, i.e., before the deadline,  is awarded 3 exam bonus points if your homework is accepted. A bonus will not be given if you miss the deadline.  Your homework solution must include 

Source code if required (with comments); 
Makefile or scripts to build and run; 
Report (in PDF) with a short description of your solution, instructions on how to build and run, command-line parameters, if any (including default values), and results, e.g., plots or screenshots. For results, your report should include results from running with the specific inputs of the assignment (if specified in the instructions; otherwise, results from running sample inputs should be included). The report should also include info on how long it took your implementation to compute each set of the results.
In case you work in Jupyter notebook, you can include the report contents there as well, in which case submission of a separate PDF would not be required.
Please do not include the dataset files as part of your submission; instead, make sure there are clear instructions and reachable links for obtaining the dataset are included in your report.
Within a week after the homework deadline, you present and demonstrate your homework on your laptop to a course instructor. A link to the time-slot pool will be provided under Syllabus to book a time slot for the presentation.

Grading and Bonus Policy
The grade for homework is pass/fail. If you submit your solution on time and it is accepted, you will get up to 3 bonus points on the ID2222 exam. Some homework assignments include an optional task for an extra bonus. The total bonus can be reduced for minor errors and inefficiency of your solution.  A bonus will not be given if you miss the deadline.